Bringing changes back from other broken branch (#20032)
microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-docs: concepts/metered-api-onboarding.md

---
title: "Onboard to Microsoft Graph Azure-metered APIs"
description: "Provides instructions to onboard an app for calling Microsoft Azure-metered APIs and services."
author: "JeremyKelley"
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.custom: scenarios:getting-started
---

# Onboard to Microsoft Graph Azure-metered APIs

Some APIs and services included in Microsoft Graph are metered and require payment for use. 

Examples of APIs that are currently metered include:
- Teams [chat](/graph/api/chats-getallmessages.md) / [channel](/graph/api/channel-getallmessages.md) export
- Teams chat / channel [change notifications](/graph/api/subscription-post-subscriptions.md)
- Teams conversationMember [change notifications](/graph/api/subscription-post-subscriptions.md)
- Teams chat / channel message [PATCH operations](/graph/api/chatmessage-update.md)
- SharePoint [assignSensitivityLabel](/graph/api/driveitem-assignsensitivitylabel.md)

> See [List of Microsoft Graph Azure-metered APIs](metered-api-list.md) for the full list of APIs that may require payment.

Reviewer: "for the full list of metered APIs."

> To consume Azure-metered APIs and services, the Azure Active Directory registration for the application consuming the APIs must be associated to an Azure Subscription which will be billed for any consumption related charges. Creating the assocation will enable the following Azure Cost Management and Billing experiences: Cost Analysis, Budgets and Alerts, and Export CSV. These instructions will outline the process of completing this association.

Reviewer: Can we simplify this a bit and say "Azure Active Directory app registration consuming the APIs..."

Reviewer: I think we should standardize on 'meter/metered' instead of 'consumption related'.

Reviewer: I think "will enable" should be re-written in present tense. "In addition to enabling usage of metered APIs, the association you to use [Azure Cost Management + Billing](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cost-management-billing/) to understand and manage the costs of this application."

- The target application must be a confidential client application (for example, web app, web API, or daemon / service). Public client applications are not supported (desktop apps, mobile apps).

## Prerequisites for accessing metered APIs
Before accessing Microsoft Graph Azure-metered APIs and services, you must complete the following prerequisite steps:
- Create an application registration in Azure Active Directory for the application that will be making calls to the Microsoft Graph Azure-metered APIs and services.
- If you don't have an Azure subscription, [create one](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/purchase-options/) now in the same tenant as the application registration.
- Make sure that you have permissions for managing both the application registration and the Azure Subscription you wish to use.
- If the APIs you plan to use are Protected APIs, submit the [request form for Teams](teams-protected-apis.md) or [request form for SharePoint](https://aka.ms/PreviewSPOPremiumAPI) depending on which APIs you are calling.

## Enabling an application

> To enable an application to call Azure-metered APIs or take advantage of Azure-metered services it must be associated with an Azure Subscription. To create this association, an Azure resource of type **Microsoft.GraphServices/accounts** needs to be created to connect the application registration to a subscription. The Azure resource will map 1:1 with an Azure Active Directory application registration. 

Reviewer: "take advantage" seems like the wrong phrase.

Reviewer: I'm not sure that map 1:1 is that meaningful of a term to customers. Perhaps "The Azure resource connects the Azure Active Directory app registration with the Azure Subscription where the application's usage of metered APIs is billed."

Use the following steps to create and link a Microsoft.GraphServices/accounts Azure Resource to your application:
1. Sign in to https://portal.azure.com

2. Choose **Cloud Shell**, and if given a choice, choose **PowerShell**.

> Note: If you're using Cloud Shell for the first time you might need to create a storage account.  Select an Azure subscription, choose **Create** and follow the instructions to create a storage account.

Reviewer: You can also use the Azure command line interface from your local machine to perform these steps.

3. If you have multiple Azure subscriptions see [Use multiple Azure subscriptions](https://learn.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/manage-subscriptions-azureps) for information on setting the active subscription, otherwise continue to the next step.

> 4. To register the **Microsoft.GraphServices** resource provider to your active subscription so an Azure resource can be created, copy the command below, paste into Cloud Shell and type  <**Enter**>.

Reviewer: "4. Use the `Register-AzResourceProvider` command to register the **Microsoft.GraphServices** resource provider on your active subscription."

Reviewer: Suggest change this to `az provider register` command. https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/provider?view=azure-cli-latest#az-provider-register

```PowerShell
Register-AzResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.GraphServices
```

> 5. Copy the command below, paste into Cloud Shell and replace the highlighted text with your own value, type <**Enter**>. The result will be a JSON representation of your Microsoft.GraphServices/accounts resource.

Reviewer: The step should describe what we're doing.

5. Use [az resource create]() to create a new instance of `Microosft.GraphServices/accounts` resource type to associate your app registration with the active subscription.

Before executing the command, replace the following parameters with your own values:

| Parameter | Description |
|:--------------------------|:----------------------------------------|
| myRG | The name you wish to give to the Azure resource group |
| myGraphAppBilling | The name you wish to give to this resource instance |

> | myAppGUID | The Application (client) ID of the application being enabled |

Reviewer: what format is the GUID supposed to be in?

| mySubscriptionGUID | The ID of the Azure Subscription that will receive billing events | 

```PowerShell

> az resource create --resource-group myRG --name myGraphAppBilling --resource-type Microsoft.GraphServices/accounts --properties  "{`"appId\`": `"myAppGUID`"}" --latest-include-preview --location Global –subscription mySubscriptionGUID

Reviewer: is there no PowerShell command for az resource create? It's weird that we're using `az` CLI app here and above we used `Register-AzResourceProvider` power shell commandlet. Let's standardize on one approach. I prefer 'az' because it's not specific to PowerShell and works if you choose another cloud shell type.

Reviewer: Does it need "--latest-include-preview" flag?

Author: Confirmed with Fernando that this is needed until GA.

```

> A successful result will look something like this:

Reviewer: "If the command succeeds, the response will include a JSON representation of the newly created resource."

```
{
  "extendedLocation": null,
  "id": "/subscriptions/c771ae10-b7c4-4030-a87e-cca9e154c340/resourceGroups/myRG/providers/Microsoft.GraphServices/accounts/myGraphAppBilling",
  "identity": null,
  "kind": null,
  "location": "Global",
  "managedBy": null,
  "name": "myGraphAppBilling",
  "plan": null,
  "properties": {
    "appId": "51aafae2-c3a6-4b94-8443-7ea2a66aa873",
    "billingPlanId": "104e68e7-a17c-4474-a4e0-f633b8c3a19b",
    "provisioningState": "Succeeded"
  },
  "resourceGroup": "myRG",
  "sku": null,
  "systemData": {
    "createdAt": "2023-01-31T00:12:20.7893671Z",
    "createdByType": "User",
    "lastModifiedAt": "2023-01-31T00:12:20.7893671Z",
    "lastModifiedByType": "User"
  },
  "tags": null,
  "type": "microsoft.graphservices/accounts"
}
```

## Consuming metered APIs in your app

> After you have enabled your app to consume Microsoft Graph Azure-metered APIs and services, the app can start making API calls for metered APIs. Charges generated from those requests will be charged to the Azure Subscription associated with the app.

Reviewer: Once you have associated your app registration and subscription, your app can start using metered Microsoft Graph APIs and services.

Note: Your application may need to request a new OAuth access token before requests to metered APIs will be allowed.

Author: Incorporated this suggestion.

Cost and usage of Azure-metered APIs and services can be monitoring through [Azure Cost Management + Billing](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/cost-management-billing/). This provides access to costs within the subscription, which can be split based on application, calling tenant, or meter.

## Receiving a bill for Microsoft Graph Azure-metered API and service usage

> After the subscription billing cycle runs, typically on the 5th day of the month, a subscription owner or users with role-based permissions can download an invoice. For details, see [View and download your Azure invoice | Microsoft Docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/cost-management-billing/understand/download-azure-invoice).

Reviewer: Is the 5th day of the month documented in Azure docs somewhere? I don't want to promise something on behalf of Azure about when the invoices are sent.

Reviewer 2: Found this in Azure docs,
"Invoice date - Date that the invoice was generated, typically on the same day of the month that the Azure account was created. However, they sometimes get generated a day or two later than day of the month that the Azure account was created."
https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/cost-management-billing/understand/understand-invoice#account-information

> The invoice will include details that allow you to understand the amount of usage your application generates and for multi-tenant applications where that usage is happening. For more details, see [Understand your Azure invoice | Microsoft Docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/cost-management-billing/understand/understand-invoice).

Reviewer: Not for MVP, but we should make sure to track adding a topic on how to determine the costs per tenant for your metered API scenario.

---
title: "Onboard to Microsoft Graph Azure-metered APIs"
description: "Provides instructions to onboard an app for calling Azure-metered APIs in Microsoft Graph."
author: "JeremyKelley"
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.custom: scenarios:getting-started
---

# Onboard to Microsoft Graph Azure-metered APIs

> Some APIs and services included in Microsoft Graph are metered by Azure-meters and require payment for use. 

Reviewer 3: "Azure-meters" looks suspect to me. I can't find this term in Azure docs. Closest I've found is "billing meters", so maybe this should be "Azure billing meters"?

Author: We should definitely raise this with Jenn Cockrell, she gave me the "Azure-metered" term this morning to use.

Author: Actually I think I see how this specific context is weird, I'm going to adjust it.

- Create an application registration in Azure Active Directory for the application that will be making calls to the Microsoft Graph Azure-metered APIs and services.
- If you don't have an Azure subscription, [create one](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/purchase-options/) now in the same tenant as the application registration.
- Make sure that you have permissions for managing both the application registration and the Azure Subscription you wish to use.
- If the APIs you plan to use are Protected APIs, submit the [request form for Teams](teams-protected-apis.md) or [request form for SharePoint](https://aka.ms/PreviewSPOPremiumAPI) depending on which APIs you are calling.

## Enabling an application
To enable an application to call Azure-metered APIs or take advantage of Azure-metered services it must be associated with an Azure Subscription. To create this association, an Azure resource of type Microsoft.GraphServices/accounts needs to be created to connect the application registration to a subscription. The Azure resource will map 1:1 with an Azure Active Directory application registration. 

> Use the following steps to create and link a Microsoft.GraphServices/accounts Azure Resource to your application:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the following steps to create and link a **Microsoft.GraphServices/accounts** Azure Resource to your application:
```

Author: Was making other changes so added this in another commit.

1. Sign in to https://portal.azure.com
2. Go to Subscriptions or open [Subscriptions - Microsoft Azure](https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Azure_Billing/SubscriptionsBlade)

> ![Azure Subscriptions in the Azure Portal](images/metered-apis/azure-subscription.png)

Reviewer 3: This is a global comment on the screenshots in this topic as a whole. I suggest taking a very critical look at what is absolutely necessary here and cutting the rest. Screenshots are a pain to maintain as UI changes, and they aren't localized.

Reviewer 3: For example, this first one is probably not needed. The Subscriptions link is literally the first one when you login to the portal.

3. On the **Subscriptions** page, choose the subscription that you will use for your API consumption charges.

> ![Choose an Azure Subscription for API consumption charges](images/metered-apis/choose-subscription.png)

Reviewer 3: Also probably not needed.

4. When the subscription opens, on the left pane choose Resource Providers, search for "graph", select **Microsoft.GraphServices**, and choose Register.
![Register the Microsoft.GraphServices resource provider](images/metered-apis/resource-providers.png)
5. Go back to the home page, choose **Cloud Shell**, and then choose **Bash**.

> ![Choose Cloud Shell](images/metered-apis/cloud-shell.png)

Reviewer 3: I'd cut this one too

Author: You're referring to the images not the text right?

Note: If you're using Cloud Shell for the first time you might need to create a storage account.  Select an Azure subscription, choose **Create** and follow the instructions to create a storage account.

> ![May need to create a storage account to access Cloud Shell](images/metered-apis/no-storage.png)

Reviewer 3: Cut this one too.

6. Copy the command below, paste into Cloud Shell and replace the highlighted text with your own value, type <**Enter**>. The result will be a JSON representation of your Microsoft.GraphServices/accounts resource.

```Cloud Shell
az resource create --resource-group myRG --name myGraphAppBilling --resource-type Microsoft.GraphServices/accounts --properties  "{\"appId\": \"<GUID>\"}" --latest-include-preview --location Global –subscription <GUID>
```

> ![Successfully associated application to Azure Subscription](images/metered-apis/cloud-shell-success.png)

Reviewer 3: This one's too small, you can't read the text. I'd cut this and replace it with the actual success text from the shell command, something like:

```bash
here's my success output...
```

Author: Got fresh output from dev and stuck in the placeholder values where they would go.

## Consuming metered APIs in your app

> After you have enabled your app to consume Microsoft Graph Azure-metered APIs and services, the app can start to successfully make API calls for metered APIs. Charges generated from those requests will be charged to the Azure Subscription associated with the app.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After you have enabled your app to consume Microsoft Graph Azure-metered APIs and services, the app can start making API calls for metered APIs. Charges generated from those requests will be charged to the Azure Subscription associated with the app.
```

Cost and usage of Azure-metered APIs and services can be monitoring through [Azure Cost Management + Billing](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/cost-management-billing/). This provides access to costs within the subscription, which can be split based on application, calling tenant, or meter.

## Receiving a bill for Microsoft Graph Azure-metered API and service usage
After the subscription billing cycle runs, typically on the 5th day of the month, a subscription owner or users with role-based permissions can download an invoice. For details, see [View and download your Azure invoice | Microsoft Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cost-management-billing/understand/download-azure-invoice).

> The invoice will include the following elements: Service Family, Service Name, Meter Category, Subcategory, consumed qty, included qty, price, and extended amount. For more details, see [Understand your Azure invoice | Microsoft Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cost-management-billing/understand/understand-invoice).

Reviewer 3: The list of elements is inconsistent. Some are title-cased, some are lower-cased, some use abbreviations - is this from Azure's UI?

Author: I'll do a quick check in the Azure UX, this was from the original doc I got.

---
title: "Onboard to metered Microsoft 365 APIs and services"
description: "Provides instructions to onboard an application for calling metered Microsoft 365 APIs and services."
author: "JeremyKelley"
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.custom: scenarios:getting-started
---

# Onboard to metered Microsoft 365 APIs and services

Some Microsoft 365 APIs and services in Microsoft Graph are metered and require payment for use. For a current list of APIs that require payment, see [Metered Microsoft 365 APIs and services](metered-api-list.md).

To consume metered Microsoft 365 APIs and services, the application registration for the Azure Active Directory application that consumes the APIs must be associated with an Azure subscription. This subscription will be billed for any metered charges. This association also allows you to use [Azure Cost Management + Billing](/azure/cost-management-billing/) to understand and manage the costs of the application. This article describes how to associate your application with an Azure subscription.

> ## Known limitations

Reviewer 4: This content might be better placed in the overview topic, because it's more general information about metered APIs and not specific to onboarding. 

Regarding the first bullet, is it accurate that the APIs are not available at all in national clouds, or they are available but not metered? Either way, we should call this out in the API topics, where we also mention that the APIs are metered. (We have a separate effort in progress to document API availability and behavior differences in national clouds.)

---
title: "Onboard to metered Microsoft 365 APIs and services"
description: "Provides instructions to onboard an application for calling metered Microsoft 365 APIs and services."
author: "JeremyKelley"
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.custom: scenarios:getting-started
---

# Onboard to metered Microsoft 365 APIs and services

Some APIs and services included in Microsoft Graph are metered and require payment for use. 

Examples of APIs that are currently metered include:
- Teams [chat](/graph/api/chats-getallmessages.md) / [channel](/graph/api/channel-getallmessages.md) export
- Teams chat / channel [change notifications](/graph/api/subscription-post-subscriptions.md)
- Teams conversationMember [change notifications](/graph/api/subscription-post-subscriptions.md)
- Teams chat / channel message [PATCH operations](/graph/api/chatmessage-update.md)
- SharePoint [assignSensitivityLabel](/graph/api/driveitem-assignsensitivitylabel.md)

> See [List of metered Microsoft 365 APIs](metered-api-list.md) for the full list of Microsoft 365 APIs that may require payment.

Reviewer 4: Why are we publishing a separate topic to list all the metered APIs, instead of including the full list here? Is it because we think the list will get a lot longer? It doesn't seem user friendly to provide examples here but require users to click to another topic to get the full list. Also, the separate topic only appears to have one additional API in the list.

Would it make sense to provide the full list of metered APIs here or alternatively, in the overview topic? At this point it might be okay to consolidate and separate later if/when we have a longer list.

Reviewer: We do expect the list to get longer. I think we can remove the list of examples here and just link to the separate topic with the list of metered APIs.

## Current limitations
- Microsoft Graph Azure-metered APIs and services are not currently available in national cloud deployments. See [National cloud deployments](deployments.md) for more information on national clouds.
- The target application must be a confidential client application (for example, web app, web API, or daemon / service). Public client applications are not supported (desktop apps, mobile apps).

## Prerequisites for accessing metered APIs
Before accessing Microsoft Graph Azure-metered APIs and services, you must complete the following prerequisite steps:
- Create an application registration in Azure Active Directory for the application that will be making calls to the Microsoft Graph Azure-metered APIs and services.
- If you don't have an Azure subscription, [create one](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/purchase-options/) now in the same tenant as the application registration.

> - Make sure that you have permissions for managing both the application registration and the Azure Subscription you wish to use.

Reviewer 2: Suggest more clarity on specific admin roles / permissions required for Azure subscription and Azure AD tenant in order to proceed.

- If the APIs you plan to use are Protected APIs, submit the [request form for Teams](teams-protected-apis.md) or [request form for SharePoint](https://aka.ms/PreviewSPOPremiumAPI) depending on which APIs you are calling.

## Enabling an application
To enable an application to use Microsoft Graph Azure-metered APIs or services it must be associated with an Azure Subscription. To create this association, an Azure resource of type **Microsoft.GraphServices/accounts** needs to be created to connect the application registration to a subscription. The Azure resource connects a single Azure Active Directory application registration with the Azure Subscription where the application's usage of metered APIs is billed. 

Use the following steps to create and link a Microsoft.GraphServices/accounts Azure Resource to your application:

> Note: The following steps can be completed either by signing in to https://portal.azure.com and choosing **Cloud Shell** or using your local Azure command-line interface. When using Cloud Shell for the first time you might need to create a storage account.  Select an Azure subscription, choose **Create** and follow the instructions to create a storage account.

Reviewer 5: nit: Could be useful to put a link to how to use Cloud Shell in the MSFT docs

Reviewer 2: Ex. overview page for Azure Cloud Shell
https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/cloud-shell/overview

| Parameter | Description |
|:--------------------------|:----------------------------------------|
| myRG | The name you wish to give to the Azure resource group |
| myGraphAppBilling | The name you wish to give to this resource instance |
| myAppGUID | The Application (client) ID of the application being enabled, provided as a string parameter for example 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000 |
| mySubscriptionGUID | The ID of the Azure Subscription that will receive billing events, provided as a string parameter for example 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000 | 

```PowerShell
az resource create --resource-group myRG --name myGraphAppBilling --resource-type Microsoft.GraphServices/accounts --properties  "{`"appId\`": `"myAppGUID`"}" --latest-include-preview --location Global –subscription mySubscriptionGUID
```

A successful JSON result will look something like this:

```
{
  "extendedLocation": null,

>   "id": "/subscriptions/c771ae10-b7c4-4030-a87e-cca9e154c340/resourceGroups/myRG/providers/Microsoft.GraphServices/accounts/myGraphAppBilling",

Reviewer 2: Do we need to mask / redact the subscriptionId and appId from this sample response?

Reviewer 5: Yes please. Same for the resource name at the end of the ID.

Author: I'll redact the subscription ID, I replaced the other "real" values with the placeholders and missed that one since it wasn't a user provided value. I'll redact the other GUID's as well below.

  "identity": null,
  "kind": null,
  "location": "Global",
  "managedBy": null,
  "name": "myGraphAppBilling",
  "plan": null,
  "properties": {
    "appId": "51aafae2-c3a6-4b94-8443-7ea2a66aa873",
    "billingPlanId": "104e68e7-a17c-4474-a4e0-f633b8c3a19b",
    "provisioningState": "Succeeded"
  },
  "resourceGroup": "myRG",
  "sku": null,
  "systemData": {
    "createdAt": "2023-01-31T00:12:20.7893671Z",
    "createdByType": "User",
    "lastModifiedAt": "2023-01-31T00:12:20.7893671Z",
    "lastModifiedByType": "User"
  },
  "tags": null,
  "type": "microsoft.graphservices/accounts"
}
```

## Consuming metered APIs in your app

> Once you have associated your app registration and subscription, your app can start using metered Microsoft Graph APIs and services. Charges generated from those requests will be charged to the Azure Subscription associated with the app.

Reviewer 5: nit: I see a few instances where it says "app" instead of "application". For this kind of documentation, we should avoid abbreviations, right?

Author: Thanks, I think I got all the "apps" now.

Note: Your application may need to request a new OAuth access token before requests to metered APIs will be allowed.

> Cost and usage of Azure-metered APIs and services can be monitoring through [Azure Cost Management + Billing](/azure/cost-management-billing/). This provides access to costs within the subscription, which can be split based on application, calling tenant, or meter.

Reviewer 2: Suggest "monitored" instead of -ing

Author: Good catch.  My grammar radar was off on that one.
